Good morning.
My name is Scott.
I'm one of the pastors here at Perdido Bay Methodist Church and welcome.
We're preaching our stewardship series about how God has been faithful to us.
God has been faithful in the past.
God is faithful today.
God will be faithful in the future.
Levi preached last week about God's faithfulness in the past, and he's asked me to preach about God's faithfulness today.
Stewardship is simply where the means that we are
faithful with all that God entrusts to us, God entrusts resources to us, and we manage it well because all that we have and all that we are really belongs to God.
And in this series, especially next Sunday, we'll have our pledge Sunday where we ask church members to pledge to give towards our budget so that we're able to do together what God is calling us to do.
And today the focus is on how God is faithful to us today.
The basis of our sermon series
is the scripture verse in Hebrews chapter 13 verse eight that says, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
And to help us remember that Jesus is faithful today, we're gonna look at two scripture verses.
The first one is earlier in the letter to the Hebrews.
In chapter three, the writer of Hebrews comments on Psalm 95, and he writes the following, he says,
Take care, brothers and sisters, that none of you may have an evil, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God.
But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called today, so that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin, for we have become partners of Christ.
If only we hold our first confidence firm to the end, as it is said today,
If you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the day of rebellion.
The Apostle Paul, in his second letter to the Corinthians, sums up the gospel in a wonderful way.
And when he sums it up, he calls us to respond to God in words very similar to what the writer Hebrew says.
Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 5, beginning with verse 17.
So if anyone is in Christ, there is a new creation.
Everything old has passed away.
Look, new things have come into being.
All this is from God who reconciled us to Himself through Christ and has given us the ministry of reconciliation.
That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to Himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting the message of reconciliation to us.
So we are ambassadors for Christ since God is making His appeal through us
We entreat you on behalf of Christ.
Be reconciled to God.
For our sake, God made him who knew no sin to be sin so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
As we work together with him, we entreat you also not to accept the grace of God in vain.
For it says, at an acceptable time, I have listened to you.
And on a day of salvation, I have helped you.
Look,
Now is the acceptable time.
Look, now is the day of salvation.
Let us pray.
Faithful and loving God, pour your Holy Spirit upon all of us, upon me so that I'll have the strength to faithfully proclaim the words you have given me, and upon all of us so that our thoughts will be pleasing and acceptable to you.
who are our rock and redeemer.
Amen.
My message is simple.
God is faithful to us today, today.
Therefore, we practice stewardship.
We practice faithfulness with what God entrusts us today, not just we did it in the past, and not just we'll wait until the future to do it.
We are faithful stewards today.
I came across a wonderful prayer in one of my prayer books by a guy named William Macy.
This was from way back in 1935, and it actually is a poem prayer.
And he wrote, so let me face the future unafraid.
Today is good, tomorrow taunts with fear.
Tomorrow I shall find God's today to prove a new His presence near.
That prayer is really guided and shaped by the words that Jesus gives us in this Sermon on the Mount.
Remember, Jesus tells us not to worry about the future.
So in Matthew chapter six, beginning with verse 32, Jesus says, your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well.
So do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow we'll bring worries of its own.
Today's trouble is enough for today.
Jesus tells us to be focused on today.
Don't worry about tomorrow.
Focus on what's going on today.
One of my spiritual directors, Elaine Mao, she gave me a wonderful prayer to pray, says, Lord, what I need you've given me today.
And for what you've given me today, Lord, I give you thanks.
She taught me to pray that way.
And when we pray the Lord's prayer, don't we say, give us this day, this day?
Or we can say, actually, in the Greek of the prayer in the New Testament, it's give us the bread of today.
Give us this day our daily bread.
We don't pray, Lord, give us
Our bread for next month, Lord, give us our bread for next year or the next five years so we can store it up so we'll know that we'll be taken care of.
Now we trust God each day.
Give us this day our daily bread.
So today we don't harden our hearts.
We practice good stewardship.
Now is the acceptable time.
Now is the day of salvation.
We practice stewardship today, and we do not get stuck in what we did in the past.
We can get stuck in ways that are maybe positive or maybe negative in the positive way.
We remember the good that God has done for us.
Levi preached last week about how God has
has been faithful to us.
God, it's true God has been faithful to us in so many ways, not just to us, but to our ancestors, to previous generations of the church.
We remember and celebrate how God has been faithful, especially when we go through tough times.
When we face moments of doubt and struggle, we can recount and remember how God has been faithful in the past, and that will encourage us, that will strengthen our faith.
But we don't get stuck in what we did in the past,
Either the good things we've done are in our failures.
The best advice I was given about preaching or any other act of ministry was that when I'm finished with it, I just had it over to God.
I don't pat myself on the back layer saying, well, Scott, you did such a great job.
You're so wonderful.
I'm not to do that.
And I'm not to beat myself up for my mistakes.
I'm not to say, you know, why did I do that?
Why did I say that?
Oh, that was so bad.
simply to let it go and let God deal with it.
We don't get stuck in the past.
And you could wonder, well, Scott, aren't we supposed to learn from what we've done in the past?
And of course, we can debrief, we can recount and learn from what we've done wrong, and also from what we've done right.
Football players do that.
They watch film of their previous games, so they can learn.
from their mistakes and learn from what they did well.
So we learn from the past, our past and other people's past, but we don't dwell on it.
We don't stay in it.
We don't get stuck in it.
Do you see the difference?
Now for those of us who've been involved in the Cairo's prison ministry, there's a wonderful story that Cairo's has that we share during the Cairo's weekend about someone getting stuck in the past.
And I want to share it with you too.
It's not my story, it's from Cairo's.
It's called the rooster.
It's about a farmer who had this prized rooster that he brought to different country fairs, and he won Blue Ribbon's first prizes, and he loved that rooster.
And the farmer also had a 16-year-old son whom he loved.
And when the son turned 16, he wanted a new car, a red convertible.
And he kept nagging his father forward and father finally got him a red convertible.
The son, he would, actually, he was not that mature because he would drive around recklessly.
He would do donuts in the parking lot.
He would drive his friends around fast.
And then he was coming home late, past curfew one night, just zooming down the road and zooming into the driveway.
And he hid the brakes.
And he slammed into the chicken coop.
And he killed his father's rooster.
And he was heartbroken because he knew how much his father loved that rooster.
He got out of his car and he saw the feathers there and the dead bird on his hood and he saw his father standing on the porch.
And he carried the rooster to his father with tears on his eyes because he knew he heard his father.
And he said, I'm sorry.
And the father said, I'm disappointed, but I forgive you.
Get a shovel and bury the rooster.
And so that's what the son did.
He buried it under
the shade of a tree that was close by.
Three days later, he was driving home and he began to think about what he'd done wrong and started feeling real guilty again.
So when he got home, he went and got the shovel and he dug up the rooster.
And this time with the carcass of the rooster starting to rot, he went and found his father working in the barn and said, Dad, I'm so sorry for what I've done.
Please forgive me.
And the father said, I've already forgiven you.
Go bury the rooster.
A week later, he was driving, he kind of felt bad again about what he did.
So again, he found where the rooster was buried.
He took a shovel, buried it, and undugged him, and carried him again to the father, and said, Father, please forgive me.
And the father said, look, son, I've already forgiven you.
Let it go.
Go back and bury the rooster.
It's a story about how God forgives us.
And we just got to accept God's forgiveness.
But sometimes we get stuck in the past.
We get stuck about our failures, and we keep bringing them to God.
And God says, look, I've forgiven you.
You're a new creation.
Don't focus on that anymore.
We can get stuck about things we've done wrong.
We can get stuck about things that we've done right and done well.
And rest on that.
Let's raise rest on our laurels.
We can do that.
I think the Apostle Paul gives us much better advice.
The Apostle Paul says in Philippians chapter three, he says, not that I've already obtained this or have already reached the goal.
but I press on to lay hold of that for which Christ has laid hold of me.
Brothers and sisters, I do not consider that.
I've already laid hold of it.
But one thing I lay hold of, forgetting what lies behind and straining towards what lies ahead, I press on towards the goal towards the prize of the heavenly call of God in Christ Jesus.
That's Philippians chapter three and Paul says, forgetting what lies behind.
So I think that's part of what we do as stewards.
We forget what lies behind and we live in the present moment because God calls us to be stewards today.
And we don't get so focused on the future.
Here's my other point.
We don't get so focused on the future that we forget to be stewards today.
Some people think about stewardship that way.
They think, you know, someday I'll be a good steward.
Some day, you know, I'll have money in the bank.
I'll have a stable life.
I'll be settled.
And then after I take care of all this stuff, then God, I'll be a good and faithful steward.
There was a philosophy among philanthropy a few years ago that came out, and some really still hold it and proclaim it.
It's called effective altruism, effective altruism.
It was kind of pushed forward by some of the tech billionaires
Altruism is simply generosity and giving.
Effective means you do it in such a way that it bears fruit, that you give to organizations, nonprofits that are doing good work and are effective in transforming the world.
You give smart and otherwise.
You give smartly, you give strategically, so that your giving will be effective.
And I agree with that.
I think we're called to be good stewards and not waste what God has given us, but give it in such a way that we know we're bearing good fruit with what we give.
The thing was that some in this movement felt like don't give now, just focus on accumulating wealth now.
And then someday you'll have a lot of money and then you'll have a big influence when you start giving.
One of the guys that preached this was
a guy named Sam Bankman Freed.
Do you remember Sam Bankman Freed?
He ran a cryptocurrency exchange.
He was a guy, I remember in the news, big, bushy hair.
He wore t-shirts to the Senate.
I mean, he was also a crook.
You know, we remember that he stole money from the exchanger.
Basically, people entrusted money to him and he took money from here and used it for other things.
And eventually he got found out
and he was sentenced to 25 years in jail.
And I don't think he's a wise person to listen to when it calls it.
Wait till later to give until you have a lot to give.
I think we are meant to start giving now.
That's, I believe that.
And you think, well, Scott, shouldn't we manage our money, save for the future, invest for the future?
And of course we are to do that.
John Wesley, when he spoke to the Methodists,
during the Methodist movement in England there in the 1700s, he preached that Methodist words to earn all they can, save all they can, and give all they can.
We're at a work hard, we're to earn what God enables us to earn, we're to save, we are to be wise and put money aside in the bank and invest it well, but also we're to give, we're to be generous now, not just in the future, but God gives us what we need today so that we can be generous today.
And here's the true reality.
We really don't know what the future holds.
You remember in Luke chapter 12, Jesus told this parable of a rich farmer who had a abundant harvest.
He had so much crops that he didn't know what to do with it all.
He didn't have enough space, and so he tore down his old barns and built
or silos and build bigger ones so that he could store what he had.
And after he did that, he said to himself, wow, you've got it all made, you can now relax and eat, drink, and be merry.
And that's what he said to himself.
And God said to him, you fool this very night, your life is being demanded of you and the things you have prepared.
whose will they be?"
And after telling his disciples this parable, Jesus added the following words.
He said, so does with those who store up for themselves, who store up treasures for themselves but are not rich towards God.
That's the wisdom of Scripture.
We don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.
In fact, the letter at James, in chapter four, it says the following, it says, come now, you who say, today or tomorrow, we will go to such and such a town and spend a year there doing business and making money, yet you do not even know what tomorrow will bring.
What is your life?
For you are a miss that appears for a little while and then vanishes.
Instead, you ought to say if the Lord wishes, we will live and do this or that.
mistake we can make with stewardship is saying, well, I've done it in the past.
I don't need to do it now.
The other mistake we can make is thinking, I'll just do it in the future, even though we don't know what the future holds.
But God gives us what we need today.
So we give thanks for what gives us today.
And we practice generosity stewardship today.
God is faithful today.
And so we're faithful stewards today and this wonderful hymn.
great as thy faithfulness.
You all know that song, great as thy faithfulness, morning by morning, new mercies I see.
That's true, God gives us mercies each morning.
And that song comes out of that great verse in the middle of lamentations, the book of sorrow, but in the middle of lamentation, right at the heart of it, there's the affirmation that God is good.
And it says, the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases.
His mercies never come to an end.
They are new every morning.
Great is your faithfulness.
God gives us what we need to say.
New every morning are God's mercies.
When the Apostle Paul wrote his fundraising letter, his letter of giving to the Corinthians, this is in 2 Corinthians chapter eight and nine, Paul refers to the story of the Israelites in the wilderness and how God fed them manna from heaven, bread from heaven every morning.
If you remember that, every morning they got out and God provided with them bread that was there on the
floor on the ground, and they just had to gather it in.
And it says that those who gathered too much did not have too much, and those who gathered too little did not have too little.
If they tried to hoard it, it became rotten.
But if they only had gathered some, they discovered that was enough for what they needed.
That's God's mercies and faithfulness at work.
God is faithful today.
Here's a video from the Skinner family, from Micah and Katie.
talks about how God is faithful and please watch the video.
I'm Micah Skinner and this is my wife Katie.
And we, actually our daughter Lily started coming here four or five years ago.
Her friend invited her to youth and so for a little while she was coming alone.
And then she just really
fell in love with it and wanted to come and be part of all the services, all the youth events.
And we finally decided we should go as like supporting her.
But I think we kind of thought we would just sneak in the back door, sit in the back row, low key.
But...
I'm not sure who it was, but the word got out that I played music.
quickly got volunteered to play drums.
And kind of went from there, did it as a, you know, kind of just serving, doing my part and showing support for Lily because she started coming to the church.
And the more I did it, the more it started to really affect me in a positive way.
I started to really feel like I was part of a community, part of a church.
And that's something that I wasn't really used to before.
fostering that relationship with everybody here and creating more friendships and relationships with everybody and The more we've done that the more like a community it's felt Beyond just coming to a church.
Yeah, and eventually My whole family started to follow I think it started with Lily's cousins and
they started coming to youth and eventually my brother and sister-in-law did.
So it just, it was like we, my family just slowly started to take over like my sisters started bringing their kids and then our younger kids started attending the children's church when Ms. Rachel started and Lily again fell in love with, you know,
any and every opportunity to volunteer with the kids.
And she tells me still to this day after going to all the camp boll glens, all the worship arts camps, that it's the happiest that she is is when she's working with the kids.
And to me that's been so monumental is having other people that are so invested in your kids and genuinely care about them and their relationship with God and two of our kids
have gotten baptized of their own accord.
I mean, in the middle of a service at two different times, they each ask to come up and get baptized and that just blew me away.
My sister, Sarah, has been volunteering at the thrift store, which has just spoken volumes to our family because she has this amazing little group of women that love her
and appreciate her hard work and just, you know, have given her this gift that in turn has just blessed our family as well.
But now my dad's playing on the worship team.
Mike is up there and Lily's on the youth worship team and singing on Sundays and I finally started going to Bible studies
getting involved where I could.
And it's just, it's turned into like wanting to be here as much as we can, like a joke.
He wishes he could quit his job here full time.
And I'll never forget one day he looked at me.
He goes, I want to start tithing here.
And I almost fell over just because I don't know that was his, that was his like level of seriousness of wanting to be here permanently.
Even beyond like whenever I first started playing drums here, my excuse was I'm that's my time is I'll devote my time I'll devote my my energies towards volunteering in the music and any other way that I can serve but the more time I spend here the more I start to believe in the mission of this church like everything about it the mission statement every just every day I see more and more ways that the church
and everybody in the church is serving the community around them.
And that's something that I believe in.
It's beyond just words, it's beyond just a Sunday service.
It's every single day.
And the more that I get involved with things, I mean doing the kids camp and just participating in that.
And then the youth lock in too, staying up all night, which is something I haven't done since I was probably in my early 20s.
So when I first started coming, there's always been a relationship with God.
I've always, I've grown up in church my whole life, always had that influence in my life.
But I think there was a real difference that happened when I started coming here and started serving on the worship team.
Because music has always been something that's spoken to me.
It's always been something that's enriched and uplifted me.
So doing that naturally started to pull me in that direction back to a more real relationship with God.
I've been feeling closer to Him any time I'm up on stage playing, whether it's guitar or drums, finding myself getting lost in that and lost in that worship and lost in the realness of God and being able to feel Him again, which is something that I hadn't felt in a really long time.
It's easy to see it individually with the people around me through conversation that it's sort of like it's happening individually and among everyone as a whole.
You can feel it, you can sense it that the church is moving in this new direction that feels really powerful, but it's almost like a subtle, real, deep change.
Watching him and then also Lily has
been very transformative for me.
I also grew up in church, but it was like a slow deepening for me when we got here because the teachings are so, so wonderfully laid out to live out in a practical way.
And so for me, there wasn't a disconnect anymore between what we're sitting and listening to in church
what we're told to live out at home.
The connection between the two became so real and then we started doing the bible recap and that really transformed my view of God and what what he really is and his love for us and all of that was just like this very very slow quiet deepening that I didn't even recognize was happening but
It has drawn me to Him and drawn me to want to be in His presence and hear as often as we can be.
Thank you, Katie and Micah, for the wonderful testimony.
You've heard how God is faithful to us today.
God's been faithful in the past.
We celebrate that and rejoice in that.
But we don't just focus on the past and get stuck in the past because God is faithful today, and God will be faithful in the future.
We trust that, but we don't get so focused on the future that we forget to be present in the present.
God is faithful yesterday, today, and forever.
God is faithful to us today.
So we are stewards, faithful stewards with what God trusts to us today.